Docs: Platform Console (#525)
amplication/docs: docs/how-to/platform-console.md

:::note
When you update a template, **all services using that template will be automatically updated**, ensuring consistency across your infrastructure.
:::

### Using Templates

To create a new service based on a template:

1. Click on the "Add Resource" button.
2. Select "Service from Template" from the available options.
3. In the modal that appears, choose a specific service template.
4. Provide a name for your new service.
5. Click "Create" to generate the new service based on the selected template.

This process ensures that the new service inherits all the pre-configured settings and plugins defined in the template.

![Amplication Create Services From Template](./assets/create-service-from-template.png)

## Private Plugins

Private plugins allow you to create custom functionality specific to your organization's needs. These can be added to templates or directly to services.

:::note
Creating and managing private plugins requires an Enterprise plan or higher.
:::

### Creating a Private Plugin

To create a private plugin:

1. In the Platform Console dashboard, navigate to the "Private Plugins" section.
2. Click on "Create Private Plugin".

> 3. Follow the creation wizard to define your plugin's functionality.

Reviewer: No wizard...
So-
Connect to your plugin repository, and add your existing private plugins to the project

## Platform Changes Sidebar

The Platform Console introduces a new **_Platform_ Changes** sidebar that replaces the **_Pending_ Changes** sidebar. It's only visible when you're viewing the Platform Console.

"Platform Changes" shows changes made to templates and private plugins, while "Pending Changes" still shows service-level changes.

:::note
Platform changes are separate from service-level changes. Make sure to review and commit platform changes separately from service changes.
:::

![Amplication Create Services From Template](./assets/platform-changes.png)

## Conclusion

> The Platform Console feature is in beta, so we encourage you to explore its capabilities and provide feedback to help us improve and refine it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Platform Console feature is designed to enhance the maintainability of your backend services, ensure organizational standardization, reduce technical debt, and streamline collaboration between platform and development teams.
As this feature is currently in beta, we encourage you to explore its capabilities and share your feedback to help us further improve and refine it.
```

:::tip

> For any questions or issues related to the Platform Console, please [contact our support team](https://amplication.com/contact) or write your feedback on our [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/amplication/amplication/discussions/8979).

Reviewer: The support link is broken. Let's avoid the link here and just write "... please contact us or write your..."
